Create Executive vote - November 14, 2024.md (#2786)
makerdao/community: governance/votes/Executive vote - November 14, 2024.md

This executive proposal includes an office-hours modifier that means that it **can only be executed between 14:00 and 21:00 UTC, Monday - Friday**. 

If this executive proposal does not pass within 30 days, then it will expire and can no longer have any effect on the Sky Protocol.

---

## Proposal Details

### SparkLend [Buffer](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.3.8.1.3.1.4_Buffer_Definition/039d633f-bccf-492f-9c6d-c167e8b5a292|57eaf45219be9dbc3712) Increase

- **Authorization**: [Governance Poll](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmNTKFqG#poll-detail)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/14-nov-2024-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/25466)

> If this executive proposal passes, then the SparkLend D3M [Buffer (`buf`)](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.3.8.1.3.1.4_Buffer_Definition/039d633f-bccf-492f-9c6d-c167e8b5a292|57eaf45219be9dbc3712) parameter on mainnet will be increased by 50 million DAI from 50 million DAI to **100 million DAI**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this executive proposal passes, then the DIRECT-SPARK-DAI [buffer (`plan`)](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.3.8.1.3.1.4_Buffer_Definition/039d633f-bccf-492f-9c6d-c167e8b5a292|57eaf45219be9dbc3712) parameter on mainnet will be increased by 50 million DAI from 50 million DAI to **100 million DAI**.
```

Author: fixed in https://github.com/makerdao/community/pull/2786/commits/0434f8718e4b63cfeb4bcc0f87b8a34ec3c8ea36

If this executive proposal passes, the outstanding debt of the RWA-003 vault will be written off by calling `cull()` on the vault's oracle. Prior to this, `drip()` will be called on the Jug to ensure that all accrued interest is accounted for. This will reduce the Surplus Buffer to cover the outstanding debt of the vault.

Please review this [forum post](https://forum.sky.money/t/consolfreight-rwa-003-cf4-drop-default/21745/21) from Steakhouse for the particulars of the events leading to this action.

#### DAO Resolution Approval

If this executive proposal passes, the DAO Resolution with the IPFS hash [QmX4DdVBiDBjLXYT4J4jC1XMdTn2Q7Ao8L66pKB8N3yETA](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/QmX4DdVBiDBjLXYT4J4jC1XMdTn2Q7Ao8L66pKB8N3yETA) will be approved.

This will authorize RWA Foundation to receive any recovered funds from ConsolFreight and to use them to fund operational expenses.

### Facilitator Vesting Stream Creation

- **Authorization**: [Atlas 1.6.2.4.1](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.1.6.2.4.1_List_of_Facilitator_Budgets/c511460d-53df-47e9-a4a5-2e48a533315b|0db3343515519c4a)

If this executive proposal passes, the following vesting streams will be created. 

> Note that DssVestSuckable for USDS and DSSVestTransferrable for SKY are not yet available. As a result, short streams for equivalent values of DAI and MKR are used. It is hoped that by the end of January, when these streams expire, it will be possible to switch the streams for these budgets to USDS and SKY, as detailed in The Atlas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that DssVestSuckable for USDS and DSSVestTransferrable for SKY are not yet available. As a result, short streams for equivalent values of DAI and MKR are used. It is hoped that by the end of January, when these streams expire, it will be possible to switch the streams for these budgets to USDS and SKY, as detailed in the Atlas.
```

Reviewer: We used `The Atlas` in the poll today as it had been used in past copy. I don't have a strong opinion about either direction, but we should probably pick one for styling and stick to it.

Reviewer 2: I don't mind either way, but if we use "The", we need to change it in other places where Atlas is mentioned within this Executive copy. Right now, every mention is with "the".

Author: >every mention is with "the".

There was only one mention using "the" which has been changed in https://github.com/makerdao/community/pull/2786/commits/373c79a2d11f98e8763eabcb5764d6014d50038d

| Cloaky      | 29.25        | [0x869b6d5d8FA7f4FFdaCA4D23FFE0735c5eD1F818](https://etherscan.io/address/0x869b6d5d8FA7f4FFdaCA4D23FFE0735c5eD1F818) |
| JuliaChang  | 28.75        | [0x252abAEe2F4f4b8D39E5F12b163eDFb7fac7AED7](https://etherscan.io/address/0x252abAEe2F4f4b8D39E5F12b163eDFb7fac7AED7) |
| BLUE        | 13.75        | [0xb6C09680D822F162449cdFB8248a7D3FC26Ec9Bf](https://etherscan.io/address/0xb6C09680D822F162449cdFB8248a7D3FC26Ec9Bf) |
| Byteron     | 9.68         | [0xc2982e72D060cab2387Dba96b846acb8c96EfF66](https://etherscan.io/address/0xc2982e72D060cab2387Dba96b846acb8c96EfF66) |
| vigilant    | 2.43         | [0x2474937cB55500601BCCE9f4cb0A0A72Dc226F61](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2474937cB55500601BCCE9f4cb0A0A72Dc226F61) |
| Bonapublica | 2.06         | [0x167c1a762B08D7e78dbF8f24e5C3f1Ab415021D3](https://etherscan.io/address/0x167c1a762B08D7e78dbF8f24e5C3f1Ab415021D3) |
| Rocky       | 1.17         | [0xC31637BDA32a0811E39456A59022D2C386cb2C85](https://etherscan.io/address/0xC31637BDA32a0811E39456A59022D2C386cb2C85) |

### Spark Proxy Spell

> - **Authorization**: [Poll 1152](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmQizL1F), [Poll 1153](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/Qmbohkr5), [Poll 1155]https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmYqM8Yf), [Poll 1156](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmXsXzot), [Poll 1157](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/Qmf955yA)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Authorization**: [Poll 1152](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmQizL1F), [Poll 1153](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/Qmbohkr5), [Poll 1155](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmYqM8Yf), [Poll 1156](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmXsXzot), [Poll 1157](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/Qmf955yA)
```

#### Update Morpho Vault Supply Caps

If this executive proposal passes the following supply cap changes will be made:

- Increase [PT-sUSDe-26Dec2024 91.5% pool](https://morpho.blockanalitica.com/ethereum/markets/e37784e5ff9c2795395c5a41a0cb7ae1da4a93d67bfdd8654b9ff86b3065941c) Supply Cap by 150 million DAI from 100 million DAI to **250 million DAI**.
- Increase [PT-sUSDe-27Mar2025 91.5% pool](https://morpho.blockanalitica.com/ethereum/markets/5e3e6b1e01c5708055548d82d01db741e37d03b948a7ef9f3d4b962648bcbfa7) Supply Cap by 100 million DAI from 100 million DAI to **200 million DAI**.

#### SparkLend WBTC Parameter Update

If this executive proposal passes the following parameter change will be made to the SparkLend WBTC market on mainnet:

- Reduce WBTC [liquidation threshold](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.3.8.1.6.1.5_Liquidation_Threshold_Definition-9170a423-fba1-4fbe-83c4-f55f2510a9db|57eaf45219be608847d6) by 5% from 70% to **65%**.

#### SparkLend ETH Market Interest Rate Model Adjustment

> If this executive proposal passes the following change will be made to the Sparklend ETH Market [Interest Rate Model](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.3.8.1.6.1.3_Interest_Rate_Model_Definition-83e3f4f2-5e8e-4383-95e5-3af1bfb19210|57eaf45219be608847d6) on mainnet:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If this executive proposal passes the following change will be made to the SparkLend ETH Market [Interest Rate Model](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.3.8.1.6.1.3_Interest_Rate_Model_Definition-83e3f4f2-5e8e-4383-95e5-3af1bfb19210|57eaf45219be608847d6) on mainnet:
```

- Reduce the SparkLend Ethereum ETH [slope 1](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.3.8.1.6.1.15_Slope_1_Definition-20c3c3c3-432e-48ac-8336-86b8345f920e|57eaf45219be608847d6) spread parameter by 0.5% from 0% to **-0.5%**.

#### Sparklend Increase wstETH Borrow Rate Limits

> If this executive proposal passes the following parameter changes will be made to the Sparklend wstETH borrow rate limits on mainnet:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If this executive proposal passes the following parameter changes will be made to the SparkLend wstETH borrow rate limits on mainnet:
```

---
title: Template - [Executive Vote] SparkLend D3M Parameter Update, Gelato Keeper Treasury Address Update, ConsolFreight Debt Write-Off and Associated DAO Resolution, Facilitator Payment Streams, Aligned Delegate Compensation, Spark Proxy Spell - November 14, 2024
summary: Update the SparkLend buffer parameter on mainnet, update the treasury address used by the Gelato keeper, write off the debt of ConsolFreight (RWA-003) and approve a related DAO Resolution, set up new Facilitator vesting streams, distribute Aligned Delegate compensation for September 2024, trigger a Spark Proxy Spell.
date: 2024-11-14T00:00:00.000Z
address: "$spell_address"

---
# [Executive Proposal] SparkLend D3M Parameter Update, Gelato Keeper Treasury Address Update, ConsolFreight Debt Write-Off and Associated DAO Resolution, Facilitator Payment Streams, Aligned Delegate Compensation, Spark Proxy Spell - November 14, 2024

> The Governance Facilitators and Sidestream and Dewiz have placed an executive proposal into the voting system. MKR/SKY Holders should vote for this proposal if they support the following alterations to the Sky Protocol.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Governance Facilitators, Sidestream and Dewiz have placed an executive proposal into the voting system. MKR/SKY Holders should vote for this proposal if they support the following alterations to the Sky Protocol.
```

If you are new to voting in the Sky Protocol, please see the [voting guide](https://manual.makerdao.com/governance/voting-in-makerdao/on-chain-governance) to learn how voting works.

---

## Executive Summary

If this executive proposal passes, the following **actions** will occur within the Sky Protocol:

- The SparkLend buffer parameter on mainnet will be increased.
- The treasury address for the Gelato keeper will be updated.
- The debt of the ConsolFreight (RWA-003) vault will be written off.
- A DAO Resolution with the hash [QmX4DdVBiDBjLXYT4J4jC1XMdTn2Q7Ao8L66pKB8N3yETA](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/QmX4DdVBiDBjLXYT4J4jC1XMdTn2Q7Ao8L66pKB8N3yETA) will be approved.
- New Facilitator vesting streams will be created.
- Aligned Delegate compensation for September 2024 will be distributed.

> - A Spark Proxy Spell at [0x8a3aaeAC45Cf3D76Cf82b0e4C63cCfa8c72BDCa7](https;//etherscan.io/address/0x8a3aaeAC45Cf3D76Cf82b0e4C63cCfa8c72BDCa7) will be executed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A Spark Proxy Spell at [0x8a3aaeAC45Cf3D76Cf82b0e4C63cCfa8c72BDCa7](https://etherscan.io/address/0x8a3aaeAC45Cf3D76Cf82b0e4C63cCfa8c72BDCa7) will be executed.
```

#### Debt Write-off

If this executive proposal passes, the outstanding debt of the RWA-003 vault will be written off by calling `cull()` on the vault's oracle. Prior to this `drip` will be called on the Jug to ensure that all accrued interest is accounted for. This will reduce the Surplus Buffer to cover the outstanding debt of the vault.

Please review this [forum post](https://forum.sky.money/t/consolfreight-rwa-003-cf4-drop-default/21745/21) from Steakhouse for a review of the events leading to this action.

#### DAO Resolution

If this executive proposal passes, the DAO Resolution with the IPFS hash [QmX4DdVBiDBjLXYT4J4jC1XMdTn2Q7Ao8L66pKB8N3yETA](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/QmX4DdVBiDBjLXYT4J4jC1XMdTn2Q7Ao8L66pKB8N3yETA) will be approved.

This will authorize RWA Foundation to receive any recovered funds from ConsolFreight and to use them to fund operational expenses.

### Facilitator Vesting Stream Creation

- **Authorization**: [Atlas 1.6.2.4.1](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.1.6.2.4.1_List_of_Facilitator_Budgets/c511460d-53df-47e9-a4a5-2e48a533315b|0db3343515519c4a)
- **Proposal**: 

If this executive proposal passes, the following actions will take place. 

> Note that DssVestSuckable for USDS and DSSVestTransferrable for SKY are not yet available. We are therefore using short streams for equivalent values of DAI and MKR. It is hoped that by the end of January when these streams expire we will be able to switch to USDS and SKY streams for these budgets, as detailed in The Atlas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that DssVestSuckable for USDS and DSSVestTransferrable for SKY are not yet available. As a result, short streams for equivalent values of DAI and MKR are used. It is hoped that by the end of January, when these streams expire, it will be possible to switch the streams for these budgets to USDS and SKY, as detailed in The Atlas.
```
Agreed with blimpa

| Byteron     | 9.68         | [0xc2982e72D060cab2387Dba96b846acb8c96EfF66](https://etherscan.io/address/0xc2982e72D060cab2387Dba96b846acb8c96EfF66) |
| vigilant    | 2.43         | [0x2474937cB55500601BCCE9f4cb0A0A72Dc226F61](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2474937cB55500601BCCE9f4cb0A0A72Dc226F61) |
| Bonapublica | 2.06         | [0x167c1a762B08D7e78dbF8f24e5C3f1Ab415021D3](https://etherscan.io/address/0x167c1a762B08D7e78dbF8f24e5C3f1Ab415021D3) |
| Rocky       | 1.17         | [0xC31637BDA32a0811E39456A59022D2C386cb2C85](https://etherscan.io/address/0xC31637BDA32a0811E39456A59022D2C386cb2C85) |

This is a total of: **87.09 MKR**.

### Spark Proxy Spell

- **Authorization**: [Poll 1](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/Qmf955yA), [Poll 2](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmXsXzot), [Poll 3](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/Qmbohkr5), [Poll 4](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmQizL1F), [Poll 5](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmYqM8Yf)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/14-nov-2024-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/25466)

> If this executive proposal passes, then the Spark Proxy Spell prepared by Phoenix Labs and reviewed by Wintermute and Certora at [0x8a3aaeAC45Cf3D76Cf82b0e4C63cCfa8c72BDCa7](https;//etherscan.io/address/0x8a3aaeAC45Cf3D76Cf82b0e4C63cCfa8c72BDCa7) will be executed. The expected inclusions are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If this executive proposal passes, then the Spark Proxy Spell prepared by Phoenix Labs and reviewed by Wintermute and Certora at [0x8a3aaeAC45Cf3D76Cf82b0e4C63cCfa8c72BDCa7](https://etherscan.io/address/0x8a3aaeAC45Cf3D76Cf82b0e4C63cCfa8c72BDCa7) will be executed. The expected inclusions are:
```

- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/14-nov-2024-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/25466)

If this executive proposal passes, then the SparkLend D3M [Buffer (`buf`)]([Buffer](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.3.8.1.3.1.4_Buffer_Definition/039d633f-bccf-492f-9c6d-c167e8b5a292|57eaf45219be9dbc3712)) parameter on mainnet will be increased by 50 million DAI from 50 million DAI to **100 million DAI**.

### Gelato Keeper Treasury Address Update

- **Authorization**: [$link_to_approval]()
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/gelato-keeper-update/25456)

If this executive proposal passes, then the Gelato Keeper Treasury address will be updated to **[0x5041c60C75633F29DEb2AED79cB0A9ed79202415](https://etherscan.io/address/0x5041c60C75633F29DEb2AED79cB0A9ed79202415)**.

### ConsolFreight (RWA-003) Debt Write-Off and Associated DAO Resolution

- **Authorization**: [$link_to_approval]()
- **Proposal**: [Forum post](https://forum.sky.money/t/consolfreight-rwa-003-cf4-drop-default/21745/21)

If this executive proposal passes, then the following actions will take place.

#### Debt Write-off

> If this executive proposal passes, the outstanding debt of the RWA-003 vault will be written off by calling `cull()` on the vault's oracle. Prior to this `drip` will be called on the Jug to ensure that all accrued interest is accounted for. This will reduce the Surplus Buffer to cover the outstanding debt of the vault.

Reviewer 4: I kind of feel this part is straddling somewhat awkwardly between being technical and not. May be just me

> If this executive proposal passes, the outstanding debt of the RWA-003 vault will be written off by calling `cull()` on the vault's oracle. Prior to this `drip` will be called on the Jug to ensure that all accrued interest is accounted for. This will reduce the Surplus Buffer to cover the outstanding debt of the vault.

Author: Yes, it's a bit difficult because we need to explain why a `drip` call will be in the code.

| BLUE            | 54,167          | [0xb6C09680D822F162449cdFB8248a7D3FC26Ec9Bf](https://etherscan.io/address/0xb6C09680D822F162449cdFB8248a7D3FC26Ec9Bf) |
| Byteron         | 34,517          | [0xc2982e72D060cab2387Dba96b846acb8c96EfF66](https://etherscan.io/address/0xc2982e72D060cab2387Dba96b846acb8c96EfF66) |
| vigilant        | 16,155          | [0x2474937cB55500601BCCE9f4cb0A0A72Dc226F61](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2474937cB55500601BCCE9f4cb0A0A72Dc226F61) |
| Kohla (Cloaky)  | 10,000          | [0x73dFC091Ad77c03F2809204fCF03C0b9dccf8c7a](https://etherscan.io/address/0x73dFC091Ad77c03F2809204fCF03C0b9dccf8c7a) |
| Ennoia (Cloaky) | 10,000          | [0xA7364a1738D0bB7D1911318Ca3FB3779A8A58D7b](https://etherscan.io/address/0xA7364a1738D0bB7D1911318Ca3FB3779A8A58D7b) |
| Bonapublica     | 8,333           | [0x167c1a762B08D7e78dbF8f24e5C3f1Ab415021D3](https://etherscan.io/address/0x167c1a762B08D7e78dbF8f24e5C3f1Ab415021D3) |
| Rocky           | 7,796           | [0xC31637BDA32a0811E39456A59022D2C386cb2C85](https://etherscan.io/address/0xC31637BDA32a0811E39456A59022D2C386cb2C85) |

> This is a total of: **308,548 DAI**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

| Cloaky      | 29.25        | [0x869b6d5d8FA7f4FFdaCA4D23FFE0735c5eD1F818](https://etherscan.io/address/0x869b6d5d8FA7f4FFdaCA4D23FFE0735c5eD1F818) |
| JuliaChang  | 28.75        | [0x252abAEe2F4f4b8D39E5F12b163eDFb7fac7AED7](https://etherscan.io/address/0x252abAEe2F4f4b8D39E5F12b163eDFb7fac7AED7) |
| BLUE        | 13.75        | [0xb6C09680D822F162449cdFB8248a7D3FC26Ec9Bf](https://etherscan.io/address/0xb6C09680D822F162449cdFB8248a7D3FC26Ec9Bf) |
| Byteron     | 9.68         | [0xc2982e72D060cab2387Dba96b846acb8c96EfF66](https://etherscan.io/address/0xc2982e72D060cab2387Dba96b846acb8c96EfF66) |
| vigilant    | 2.43         | [0x2474937cB55500601BCCE9f4cb0A0A72Dc226F61](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2474937cB55500601BCCE9f4cb0A0A72Dc226F61) |
| Bonapublica | 2.06         | [0x167c1a762B08D7e78dbF8f24e5C3f1Ab415021D3](https://etherscan.io/address/0x167c1a762B08D7e78dbF8f24e5C3f1Ab415021D3) |
| Rocky       | 1.17         | [0xC31637BDA32a0811E39456A59022D2C386cb2C85](https://etherscan.io/address/0xC31637BDA32a0811E39456A59022D2C386cb2C85) |

> This is a total of: **87.09 MKR**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

### Launch Project Funding

- **Authorization**: [Atlas 5.6.1.6](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.5.6.1.6_Budget/8a88d69e-33cf-459f-8e1c-de4ac965d76b|8d5aeb778e7c)
- **Proposal**: [$link_to_proposal]()

If this executive proposal passes, then $TBD.

### Spark Proxy Spell

> - **Authorization**: [Poll 1](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/Qmf955yA), [Poll 2](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmXsXzot), [Poll 3](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/Qmbohkr5), [Poll 4](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmQizL1F), [Poll 5](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmYqM8Yf)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Authorization**: [Poll 1152](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmQizL1F), [Poll 1153](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/Qmbohkr5), [Poll 1155]https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmYqM8Yf), [Poll 1156](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmXsXzot), [Poll 1157](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/Qmf955yA)```

- Reduce the SparkLend Ethereum ETH [slope 1](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.3.8.1.6.1.15_Slope_1_Definition-20c3c3c3-432e-48ac-8336-86b8345f920e|57eaf45219be608847d6) spread parameter by 0.5% from 0% to **-0.5%**.

#### Sparklend Increase wstETH Borrow Rate Limits

If this executive proposal passes the following parameter changes will be made to the Sparklend wstETH borrow rate limits on mainnet:

- Increase wstETH Borrow Cap [`max`](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.3.8.1.6.4.1.3_Cap_Automator_Absolute_Maximum_Exposure_Definition-a01eec5b-64d9-42fa-ae44-b27d22e14a42|57eaf45219be6088aa1c4806) parameter by 97,000 wstETH from 3,000 wstETH to **100,000 wstETH**.
- Increase wstETH Borrow Cap [`gap`](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.3.8.1.6.4.1.1_Cap_Automator_Target_Available_Exposure_Definition-78ec4709-3773-4f20-b3ef-d58d29f302c2|57eaf45219be6088aa1c4806) parameter by 4,900 wstETH from 100 wstETH to **5,000 wstETH**.

## Review

> Community debate on these topics can be found on the Sky [Governance forum](https://forum.makerdao.com/). Please review any linked threads to inform your position before voting.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Community debate on these topics can be found on the Sky [Governance forum](https://forum.sky.money/). Please review any linked threads to inform your position before voting.
```
